The stages of awareness, evaluation,
and purchase guide us when deciding which order to place user steps in a funnel.
By looking at the number of visitors that go between each step,
we can determine where the largest drop off occurs.
The first example is a traditional eCommerce purchase funnel.
During the awareness stage,
we see the step of site visit,
which then moves to the evaluation stage,
where the user reviews the product and considers a purchase.
The user continues to evaluate even as they add the item to the cart.
The last step of valuation,
the last moment for a user to drop out of the funnel occurs when they enter the checkout,
because the final stage and final step in this funnel is the purchase of the product.
You can see this example funnel began with 100 visitors but ended with only 10 purchases,
a 10 percent conversion rate.
By looking at which steps are the biggest loss of customers,
we might learn how to improve the shopping experience.
Though funnel analysis traditionally is used for
evaluating customer acquisition and activation,
the steps one takes to do
a sales funnel analysis apply equally well to the usage of a new feature.
Creating a user funnel starts with identifying
the steps a user takes when going towards a desired action.
In the case of features,
the final goal of the funnel might not be purchase but usage of the new feature.
For example, when a new referral feature is launched,
the ultimate goal and final step of the funnel will
be the number of users who send referral e-mails.
The steps to get to this goal,
from entering the app to learning about the feature,
and during a friend's e-mail address,
and finally sending the referral e-mail.
Regardless of whether the goal is purchase or usage,
analysis still consists of counting the number of users who make it to each step.
For all funnel analysis,
looking at areas where users drop off at high or higher than
normal rates gives us important data
about areas that may need improvement in our product.